------------------- Obtaining VPhaser/VProfiler -----------------------

VPhaser and VProfiler can be used to call haplotypes from a set of reads.
VPhaser calls SNVs, while VProfiler performs haplotpe reconstruction.
VProfiler is bundled with the VPhaser package. It can be downloaded at:

   https://www.broadinstitute.org/viral-genomics/viral-genomics-analysis-software-registration

The dependencies for VPhaser/VProfiler can be obtained and run using Anaconda, 
which includes the associated package manager conda.
If you do not have anaconda, download it from the link below and install:

	https://www.anaconda.com/download/

After setting up the anaconda environment, you may install VPhaser/VProfiler
using the Quick Install or Manual Install Instructions below.


------------------------ Quick Install --------------------------------

Included in this package is a script to install VPhaser/VProfiler from the
associated ZIP package. If you do not have the package, download it from
the link above and place it in this directory. Then, run:

	bash install-vphaser.sh

This will install vphaser and its dependencies, and verify the installation.


----------------- Manual Installation Instructions ---------------------

Some of the dependencies of VPhaser/VProfiler are located in the conda channel 'bioconda', 
which needs to be opened to download packages from. To do this, run:

	conda config --add channels bioconda

The dependencies are listed below. If you do not have any of them, or are unsure,
run the corresponding conda command to install it to Anaconda:

	Perl               conda install perl
	R                  conda install -c r r 
	R-gplots           conda install -c r r-gplots
	samtools           conda install samtools
	MOSAIK aligner     conda install mosaik
	MUSCLE aligner     conda install muscle

Download the VPhaser ZIP file and place it in the directory of your choice. Unzip it with:

	unzip <filename>

Then, navigate to the VPhaser directory:

	cd VpSoftwarePackage

If all of the required packages have been installed correctly, you won't have to change
the config file. Complete the configuration by entering:

	perl configPaths.pl configfile.txt

The installation is now complete.


Optionally, you can test the installation by running the test files included in the package.
If you installed this program using the Quick Install script, this step was performed automatically.
To do this manually, navigate to the directory containing the test files:

	cd TestData

The TestData directory contains several sample data files. It also contains the directory 
'ExpectedResults', which contain the expected output files from this test. After the test, 
you can compare your files to the files in this directory to ensure that the program is working properly.
First, run VPhaser on the QLX file, which contains aligned read data used as the input to VPhaser:

	perl ../vphaser.pl -i rcVTest_final.qlx -o vp_VTest

Next, run VProfiler to analyze the SNVs called by VPhaser and predict population haplotypes:

	perl ../vprofiler.pl -i vprofiler_input_VTest.txt -o vpro -noendvariant=10 -nt -codon -haplo -haploseq

VPhaser will create a new directory named 'vpro_haplotypes' containing the haplotypes and population information.
The nucleotide and corresponding amino acid codon sequences of the haplotypes can be found in the files ending in
_nuseq.fa and _aaseq.fa, respectively. The VTest output txt files contain the frequencies that these haplotypes
were detected in the population.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
